# Phase I: Analyzing Users, Competitors, and Initial Designs

## Introduction

When searching for housing, there are multiple factors that people take into consideration. Some such factors may be pricing, location, what amenities are included, or many more. However, who manages or is the owner of that housing can matter more than anything else. It may be the nicest area with great pricing, but poor management can make it all go down the drain. With our website, we help address this issue and shed more light on the management aspect of renting. Individuals will be able to clearly review management and help fellow renters identify this missing factor that should be included when looking for a new place. Additionally, our website can be used as a tool for management companies to receive constructive feedback.

## Methods

When developing our website, we need to find methods to help inform us on the market and what competitors have already done to fulfill this user need. One simple method we have used is looking into the bigger companies that hold the most value in our market. More specifically, heuristic analysis of our competitors' software. The main thing we want to look for is if they provide the functionality of reviewing the management of properties. This allows us to gain information about whether our idea is already implemented in bigger names. If they are, how can we improve? What do they lack that we can build upon? Another important method we used is evaluating who the main customers or users of our software would be in the form of personas and scenarios. Knowing this is crucial in not only how our software operates, but how it’s designed, what features should be included, and more. Since this is early on into our development, in the beginning, the majority of our data was based on assumptions. That being said, our problem of focus is robust and attracts a lot of conversation, especially online. We can use this conversation to further develop accurate profiles of our potential users. With these methods, we gathered a large amount of useful data that will be essential for developing our software.

## Findings

With the listed methods, the findings have provided very useful data. For our first method, heuristic analysis, we mostly found that the majority of the bigger competitors in our market provide no rating system for management. We also found that their rating system is very vague in the first place. The majority of the time, it’s a basic 0-5 star rating system based on things such as area, pricing, in-unit appliances, and others. They have options to comment as well to leave further feedback but since their focus is usually on the other factors mentioned before, you usually never see anything about management. With this we can automatically capitalize on the fact that there’s no big name company that has introduced this functionality. With our other method of finding our main users, we found that the population that would use our software the most is younger adults and people who travel. Since people only really need to worry about management when renting, we found that the people who mostly rent are younger adults and people who like to travel. With this, we can take a more modern approach to our development. This is useful because it shows us what main functions we should include such as how to leave reviews, finding renting spaces and the overall design of our product. We also found that there may be a population of landlords who also want to see how their property is doing in terms of management.

## Conclusions

The findings of our research methods tell us that many services lack a good rating system. Having a good rating system is vitally important because it allows consumers to make confident decisions based on the experiences of prior renters. It seems like the five star rating is the default UX design choice when it comes to picking a rating system. The benefit of the five star rating system is that it’s so universal and easy to use. For example if you want to leave a review it only takes one click, the down side being that the rating system is so vague. In the future if you are going to have a 5 star rating system, add multiple categories instead of just having one overall rating. For instance our website would have categories to rate such as cleanliness, management, noise, etc. This keeps it easy for users to leave ratings whilst maintaining a review section that’s descriptive yet easily digestible. 

## Caveats

Our methods carry the caveat that they are based on assumptions of user needs without any empirical data from user research. This can lead to a skewed or biased perspective based on the UX team’s experiences, but we tried to cover a wide breadth of potential users in our personas and scenarios list.
The obvious caveat to our concluding rating system concept is that it is limited to the number of users we have. There is a smaller percentage of people who write reviews because people are just too busy and don’t want to spend their time filling one out. Even though we are adding more categories to the rating system we are still keeping it short and sweet. Additionally, by making it accessible on all kinds of different platforms, we can make it as easy as possible for those who are willing to write a review. We can also encourage people to write reviews by giving out rewards. In the end, the more reviews we have the more confident our users will be and the easier it will be for them to choose their new home. 
